Krishi Tripuraneni 
3 December 2021
Project 3
					How AI is utilized in the gaming industry and financial industry 

   While game director Eric Baptizat was testing a build (version of a game), he noticed that he was being followed everywhere by two non-player characters. It seemed that some quirk in the system made these NPCs (Non-Playable Characters) into zealous disciples. Getting a little frustrated, Baptizat fast traveled to the other side of the country to get rid of them. Ten minutes later, they showed up. They'd hiked across England to reach him – their leader and hero (Stuart). 
   Artificial Intelligence (AI) has been portrayed as the end of humankind in science fiction (sci-fi) movies. And while we acknowledge that these are futuristic movies, society has grown to see AI as dangerous. The fact is that AI is still in its infant years, and is not close to true thought. For instance, leading AI technology has finally been able to distinguish dogs and cats in photos. Developers have been using AI in recent years, and it has greatly improved everything it touches. For instance, in London, city officials are utilizing AI to create a digital copy of a town using lidar, a radar-like tech (McDonald). There, the AI has allowed city officials to better plan construction, estimate pedestrian pathways, and more. Overall, AI has been growing rapidly in the past few decades mostly because of hardware improvements. Moreover, it is most prevalent in the gaming industry. Developers have found ingenious ways to utilize AI, including linguistics for usernames, 3d visualizations, non playable characters, and more. Since the gaming industry has adopted the use of AI, its growth has increased, and other industries can follow suit. Another industry that AI would work well in is the financial industry. It could improve the field by analyzing patterns and providing more information for companies or users. Additionally, AI would be able to capitalize on the large amounts of data in the industry to predict stock crashes, booms, and anything else prevalent to its users. We should take inspiration from the gaming industry, and try to make more strides in AI use in the financial sector.
   AI sounds very futuristic, but it actually is simple in theory. The concept of AI is extremely old. There are records of the concept in the 1700s. However, once computing evolved, we began to see modern AI being used in the 1950s and 1960s (Reynoso). But what is AI? Artificial intelligence (AI) is a “wide-ranging branch of computer science concerned with building smart machines capable of performing tasks that typically require human intelligence (BuiltIn.com).” In simple terms, AI is the study of making computers that can think and learn like humans. Since video games are very computer intensive, developers naturally turned to AI for emerging needs. It is now being used in many unique ways. Examples include linguistics, 3d visualizations, adding complexity to games, etc. For instance, whenever a player creates a username for a game, the system checks the username for inappropriate words or phrases. The use of AI allows words obscured with symbols (mu$ic equals music) to be caught. Furthermore, they learn through very simple requirements. Developers can describe test steps as simple ‘goals’ for the AI. The AI is then left to play with the game autonomously until it achieves the goal (Arbon). This process allows AI to become effective at a plethora of tasks. Furthermore, the way the AI learns is not so different from how humans learn. We learn how to do multiplication by showing what it is, how to do it, and are corrected if we are wrong.
   AI has allowed open world games to become more intelligent and have more complexity. In fact, in the past few decades, AI has become exponentially smarter. On February 10th, 1996, IBM’s Deep Blue faced off against Gary Kasparov, the current chess world champion, and became the first computer program to win (Walker). This goes to show how the learning stage of AI has improved. Whenever someone builds an AI, they place certain parameters, rules, and goals for the AI to achieve. After that, the AI is tested (thousands of times) until it excels at the task. after so many iterations, the AI becomes very habituated with the task. While it may seem like brute force, this is the modern approach towards teaching AI through machine learning. Furthermore, since AI can now beat humans, there are at least as smart as us. If humans have a task that we can’t solve, there is a possibility that AI will be able to. A great example of this is Minecraft. Minecraft seeds allow infinite combinations of the same game. Using AI, this allows “your old game is still familiar yet new—and infinitely replayable” (Pinchefsky).” Games like Minecraft highlight the improvements AI can bring to games. At the same time, this doesn’t clearly show the effect of AI. There may be confounding factors (i.e. other technological improvements) mixed in that could make the results inconclusive. We can, however, compare by looking at the Halo video game. The developers of Halo implemented AI very well and recorded how it improved the game. In it, the AI allows the enemies to use cover wisely, while employ suppressive fire and grenades (Chowdhury). This allows the NPCs to actually play more realistically and more human-like. While this has a limited scope to video games, there is a takeaway that human-like is generally smarter, and AI is getting closer on all fronts to mimicking humans. 
   Because of AI enabled support, the gaming industry has been able to focus on more important aspects of games. The first example of players competing on separate screens came in 1973 with a strategic turn-based game called Empire (Chikhani). While the technology is rudimentary compared to modern standards, it highlights the impact of technological improvements. With every technological advancement, developers were able to create more interesting and interactive games. In the case of Empire, developers were able to make the first multiplayer game which led to a plethora of options. Similarly, AI has been an impactful technological improvement by simplifying many parts of coding such as 3d rendering (creating the map). For instance, programmers can take pictures of real-world terrain, and AI can use those photos to reconstruct the setting virtually. This not only allows for more detailed map terrain, but also saves the programmer the time and effort of building a map. These advances in AI could signify an amazing new chapter for gaming — especially if combined with VR, as they could allow games to interact with characters within games with intelligent and seemingly natural responses (Chikhani). This goes to show how the future of AI in gaming has an abundance of possibilities for development. Furthermore, we can see that surrounding technologies have enabled more improvements in video games. With AI, a technology that can grow, learn, and scale infinitely, the possibilities are seemingly endless.
   AI in the future is going to be far more advanced than we can predict; however, we should be careful about how we use it. During a research experiment, computer scientists attempted to create an AI that can offer ethical advice. During the testing of the AI, they found it was very racist and unrefined. Furthermore, they found that making a computer an “arbiter of moral judgement” can have some harmful effects (Tran). The AI simply wouldn’t make decisions that humans would, and this should’ve been expected. Additionally, it was very difficult to imbue human values into the AI as it would only process logically. This also brings up a good point about the limitations of AI. AI cannot process ethics that well, and in a situation in which someone wants to utilize AI, human oversight is required. Additionally, this relates to gaming because both misuse AI in some way. In various games, developers have utilized AI to check for inappropriate names and to ban those players. However, in many cases, there was not enough oversight and many players were wrongfully punished. Ultimately, AI is a tool, and it can't be used for all applications. 
   The financial industry can can adapt methods used in the gaming industry to better utilize AI. AI doesn't work everywhere, but it's known that AI works best with numbers and large amounts of data. Therefore, AI should be perfect for use in the financial industry because it ignores human bias and excels at finding patterns. For example, AI could find patterns for when a company’s stocks will boom. Additionally, the use of AI in these cases can vary. Instead of making stock changes on their own, they can simply give stock investors more financial information at their disposal. Whichever way they choose, investors can gain a lot from using AI more. Another industry that utilizes AI is the traveling industry. In it, Artificial Intelligence helps to optimize sales and price, as well as prevent fraudulent transactions (Bachinskiy). The traveling industry has already started using AI, and have found great success with it; making it even more surprising that the financial industry hasn’t. A point to note is that some banks are aware of the advantages of AI. Many banks, however, have struggled to move from experimentation to scaling AI technologies across the organization (Biswas). It seems that these banks are aware of the advantages, but they have not prioritized them. It is not entirely the industries fault, but also the fault of big corporations. We have, however, seen some smaller innovative startups use AI. For instance, Kreditech is a German company that has used AI to determine whether or not the customer can take out a loan (aimagizine.com). This new method will be able to check for loans quicker, more accurately, and more securely. Startups like this show how AI has not only been able to create new technology, but also improve existing technology. AI has been implemented in other industries, and found already success. It ready to be used in the financial industry and accelerate its trajectory.
   AI has been an old concept, and a very rapidly growing technology. There has been a tremendous amount of use of AI in the gaming industry, and the industry has clearly boomed because of this. Developers have been able to create new and imaginative games, while not sacrificing the small details. Since AI works well with numbers, we should take inspiration from the gaming industry, and try to make more strides in AI use in the financial sector. If the financial sector uses AI more, then it will find success like the gaming industry has. We have seen new technologies spark extreme growth, but AI is continually growing. I’m optimistic for the future of AI, and believe that it will play a large part in society going forward. As a society, we should be aware of AI’s importance in our futures.

